---
title: "Reflections: HCID 521"
subtitle: "Reflections: HCID 521"
layout: post
date: 2014-03-19 21:15
categories: studio
tags: 
author: Aniket Handa
imagesrc: ""
summary: "Reflections on HCID 521: Prototyping Studio" 
---

When I look back, the two words that pop in my mind are ‘variety’ and ‘collaboration’. I say ‘variety’, as in ideas and approach. With such a diverse group of cohort, it was really intriguing to see different approaches to solve a given problem. I say ‘collaboration’, as I could feel the energy and the sincere desire to learn throughout the quarter in the class. But, the greater outcome is the appreciation for rapid prototyping and understanding its role in design process.
The weekly assignments coupled with in-studio exercises were a perfect way to introduce us to new tools and techniques. We went slowly from low fidelity prototyping to medium-high fidelity prototyping. I tried to channel my prototypes around Wearables and Ubiquitous Computing, whenever I could. It’s the field that I really feel interested in. I’ll discuss some of the projects around this topic. First, was the paper prototype of a Smart Watch + Mobile App targeted towards helping Gym goers to quickly look, schedule and manage their exercising schedule, when at a Gym. Due to a fast paced environment in a Gym, a need to quickly access the schedule by just glancing at the Smart was given utmost importance. The behaviour prototype was a group assignment, and to be the Wizard of Oz and simulate the experience was fun and learning at the same time. I noticed that observations are critical when doing a behaviour prototype. They can reveal actual expectations of the user. Mobile and Electronic prototype brushed up my coding skills, but I learned the most while Physical Prototyping in Rhino. It was great! The Rhino class exercise especially contributed a lot to my learning.
I would also like to mention one such case where I could really see myself applying ‘What all is possible? (Technical) to answer ‘What should be done? (Design). For example, in case of Mobile Prototype we were given a design specification of a Tweeting App and were suppose to develop a Mobile App using it. It was interesting because, I could clearly see that the design specification could be improved by incorporating platform specific design guidelines. Also not only this, I could improve the overall experience by bettering the interaction flow between screens. In my prototype I used ‘Intents’ as an inter application communication to deliver tweets via Twitter official App already installed in the phone. If its not installed, a browser is fired creating ’Web Intent’ instead. This approach led to quick tweeting as user no longer needed to sign in into the App.
For the final project I and Chaoyu Yang prototyped a head mounted game controller that actually helps exercising Neck muscles, while being engrossed in the game. Approaching from both, the problem and technology side we generated the idea. We used behaviour prototyping and electronic prototyping to answer some of our questions. Both were successful, but given more time we would have liked to incorporate more ambitious solutions to the problem.
Last but not the least, I learned not only doing individual projects, but more by debugging others code and by collaborating during a group assignment. Due to my technical background, I saw myself helping others while Arduino exercise and also later that week. During group exercises or projects I found myself a asset by constantly offering a realistic perspective. As in during behaviour prototyping a 3D gesture recognition system, I knew some literature before hand and also technical challenges in gesture recognition. I also kept in mind not to hamper the breadth of ideas generated during a brainstorming due to a technical perspective.